autoanalyze <filepath> - Analyze a log file created by the `autoplay` command

Usage:
    autoanalyze /tmp/games-autoplay.txt
    autoanalyze /tmp/autoplay.txt -export gid -letterdist english -boardlayout CrosswordGame

This command prints out some basic stats about the games in the given file.

Note: The `autoplay` command creates two log files; you specify the
path for the in-depth file which has turn-by-turn data. The other created
file has general data about who won each game. It is this latter file
that the `autoanalyze` command works on.

For example, if you specify a log file of /tmp/auto.txt, the file that
you should analyze is called /tmp/games-auto.txt.

You can use the second form of the command to export a game from the 
in-depth file. It will export as gid.gcg in the current directory.

The letterdist will default to english if not specified.
The boardlayout will default to CrosswordGame if not specified.

Game pairs:

For a run made with `autoplay -gamepairs`, autoanalyze adds a "Game pairs"
section, which is the part to read. The two games of a pair are played from
one bag with the seats swapped, so they are not independent results and the
per-game figures above that section overstate the uncertainty. The pair
section adds each pair's two margins together instead, which cancels the
tiles and the first-move advantage, and tests those sums. It reports what the
pairing bought, typically worth several times the number of games.

Its p-values come from a sign-flip test over the pairs, which assumes only
the symmetry the design already guarantees. Pairs that come out exactly even
are kept, since a pair that plays out identically is a real result of no
difference and dropping it would exaggerate the average.

Add -divergence to find out where the two halves of each pair parted ways:

    autoanalyze /tmp/games-auto.txt -divergence
    autoanalyze /tmp/games-auto.txt -divergence -limit 30

Both halves of a pair are dealt the same tiles, so the only thing that can
make them differ is a bot choosing differently. For each divergent pair this
prints the turn they first disagreed on, the rack they both held, and what
each bot played with it.

A bot playing itself should report no divergences at all, and every pair
should be an exact tie. Two different bots should diverge often -- pairs that
never diverge are ties that tell you nothing.

If a pair's halves turn out to hold different racks, that is flagged loudly:
it means the bag went out of step, so the run is comparing luck again rather
than strategy.

    -limit N        describe N divergent pairs (default 10); the counts and
                    the turn statistics always cover all of them
    -turnlog PATH   read plays from this per-turn log instead of the file
                    next to the game log

Inference quality:

When a run includes an inferring bot, the per-turn log records how good each
inference was. Autoplay knows the opponent's real rack, so every inference can
be graded against it: what probability the posterior placed on the leave the
opponent actually held, and what the unseen tile counts alone would have said.

    autoanalyze /tmp/auto.txt -inference

Note this one reads the per-turn log (auto.txt), not the per-game log, since
that is where the turns are.

The number to watch is bits per inference, log2(posterior/prior). Zero means
inference did no better than counting tiles; positive means it learned
something about the opponent's rack; negative means it was misled. Being a log
score, hedging cannot inflate it -- reporting the prior back scores exactly
zero. Averaging it over a run gives one figure to compare tau values or
inference budgets by.

A log score has a long left tail, so the report also gives the median and the
tenth percentiles: one badly wrong inference can outweigh a dozen good ones in
the mean. Inferences that gave the true leave no weight at all are counted
separately, since that is the costly failure -- the simmer then never samples
the truth.

The per-turn columns behind this. A run with an inferring bot carries them on
every row, empty on the rows the other bot played, so the log stays a table:

    inferCount      leaves in the posterior
    trueLeave       what the opponent actually kept
    truePost        posterior probability of that leave
    truePrior       hypergeometric prior of that leave
    liftBits        log2(truePost/truePrior)
    trueRank        that leave's rank in the posterior
    inferLeaves     how many leaves the posterior covers
    trueMeasured    whether a mini-sim evaluated it, or it was imputed
