infer [options] - Perform a tile inference

Example:
    infer
    infer -threads 3
    infer details
    infer log

Inference requires a game to be loaded. It tries to infer what tiles the
last person to make a move kept.

Note that it uses Monte Carlo simulation in order to do the inference, and it
goes "two levels deep". So it should be more accurate than it was in the past,
but definitely significantly slower.

The only allowed move types for inference at this moment are "exchange" and
"tile play". That is, the last move must be an exchange or a tile play in
order for inference to work.

Inference will return an error if the move was not one of these two types,
or if there was no previous move. If the bag was empty when the player
made the move, it also does not bother inferring. Bingos (all 7 tiles
played) are also skipped since no leave was kept.

In order to set the rack of the player who is performing the inference,
so that the player whose rack is being inferred doesn't get assigned this
rack, just set it in the game using the "rack" option.

When the inferrer is done running, it prints out stats for the tiles.

Inferences are saved in memory. You can sim using these inferences.
See `help sim` or do `sim -useinferences weightedrandom`.

Imputation (tile plays only):

    Within the time budget the engine can directly evaluate only some of the
    feasible leaves. For tile-play inference it fills in the rest by
    imputation: for every tile, pair, and triple it tracks how much more (or
    less) often leaves containing it produced the observed play ("lift"), and
    combines those lifts — without double-counting overlapping evidence — into
    an estimated likelihood for each never-evaluated leave. The result is a
    complete posterior over every feasible leave. Directly evaluated leaves
    are tagged "measured", the rest "imputed". Exchange inference still uses
    plain Monte Carlo sampling. Sims automatically sample from the complete
    posterior when one is available. See docs/leave_imputation.md for the math.

Refinement rounds:

    Inference alternates measuring and imputing. Round 0 draws racks at
    random from the unseen pool — blind exploration, and the only part that
    is not steered by the model. It gets 40% of the time budget. Each later
    round then draws leaves from the *current* posterior, favouring high
    weight but with a bonus for leaves whose lifts rest on thin evidence,
    evaluates them with real mini-sims, and refits. So leaves the model
    thinks are strong get formally checked instead of taken on faith, and
    what is learned feeds the next round's targeting.

    Each round reports log R̂: the log ratio of measured to imputed likelihood
    mass over that round's leaves, all of which were unmeasured beforehand —
    an out-of-sample verdict on the model. 0 means the model was right about
    the mass it pointed at. The loop stops when that ratio's whole confidence
    interval fits inside ±10%, when the unmeasured leaves hold under 2% of
    the posterior, when every leave has been measured, or when the rounds or
    the clock run out. See -rounds and
    docs/development/iterative_inference_plan.md.

Note: Sometimes the inference engine will display "No inference details". It
is not broken; it was unable to find racks where the opponent's play ranked
highly enough for it to be able to infer anything.

Optional arguments:
    `infer log` will log to a temporary file.

    `infer details` shows detailed inference output including:
      - Top 15 inferred racks ranked by Bayesian weight, each marked as
        "measured ×N rR" (directly evaluated N times with mini-sims, first
        drawn in round R) or "imputed" (likelihood estimated from marginal
        lifts). r0 is the prior-sampled pass; r1 and up are refinement
        rounds, so "measured ×1 r3" means the model pointed at that leave in
        round 3 and it was then evaluated for real.
      - Where the highest-weight *imputed* leave sits in the ranking, and how
        much mass the imputed set holds. After refinement the visible table
        is usually all measured, so this is the pointer to where the model is
        still guessing. Omitted when the space was evaluated exhaustively.
      - Weight concentration and effective sample size (ESS)
      - Per-tile found vs expected percentages

    `infer output` re-displays the summary bins from the last inference.

    `infer ranks [n] [measured|imputed]` browses the full posterior ranking,
    not just the top 15. Ranks shown are positions in the whole posterior, so
    a filtered view still says where its rows sit:

        infer ranks 50            top 50 leaves
        infer ranks imputed       top 15 never-evaluated leaves
        infer ranks 30 imputed    top 30 never-evaluated leaves
        infer ranks 20 measured   top 20 directly evaluated leaves

    `infer ranks imputed` is the quick way to see what the model is still
    extrapolating and how far down the ranking it starts.

    `infer leave <LEAVE> [<LEAVE> ...]` looks up specific leaves in the
    posterior, e.g. `infer leave ITZ` or `infer leave ITZ AEZ`. Each leave
    is tagged [MEASURED ×n, rR] or [IMPUTED] and shows its weight, posterior
    share and rank, the hypergeometric prior, and the posterior/prior lift,
    followed by a calculation walkthrough: the per-subleave lift/φ table and
    the exact chain from prior and likelihood to the final weight.

    A measured leave also says how it was selected — drawn at random in round
    0, or drawn from the imputed posterior in refine round R — and for the
    latter, what the model predicted for it *before* it was measured. That
    prediction is genuinely out of sample; the model has since been refit on
    the measurement, so the comparison table below it is not. A large
    measured/predicted ratio is the model having underestimated a strong
    leave, which is exactly what refinement exists to catch.

    For measured leaves the φ table is shown as a comparison, ending with the
    measured/imputed likelihood ratio — a ratio far from 1 on a ×1 leave
    suggests a noisy single evaluation.

Understanding the output:

    The header line shows key diagnostics:
      - Unique racks: how many distinct leaves were found
      - Iterations: total random racks tried
      - Acceptance rate: % of iterations that produced a valid inference
        (a very low rate may indicate tau is too small or the opponent's
        play is unusual — try increasing tau)
      - tau: the softmax temperature used (see below)
      - ESS (Effective Sample Size): measures how spread out the weights
        are. ESS = (sum of weights)^2 / (sum of squared weights).
        If ESS is close to the number of inferred racks, the weights are
        evenly spread. If ESS is much smaller (e.g. 2 out of 20), a few
        racks dominate the inference. Low ESS can mean the inference is
        confident about specific racks, or that noise is concentrating
        weight on a few lucky draws.

    The summary bins categorize tiles by how often they appear in
    inferred racks compared to their base rate in the unseen tile pool:
      - "Way more than chance": found/expected ratio >= 2.0
      - "More than chance": 1.25 to 2.0
      - "Slightly more than chance": 1.1 to 1.25
      - "About as expected": 0.9 to 1.1
      - "Slightly less than chance": 0.75 to 0.9
      - "Less than chance": 0.25 to 0.75
      - "Way less than chance": under 0.25
      - "Unpossible": tile not in the unseen pool at all

    The detailed view (`infer details`) additionally shows:
      - The top inferred racks with their Bayesian weight and percentage
        of total weight. Weight = softmax P(play|leave) computed over
        log-odds of win probabilities, representing how likely the opponent
        would choose their observed play given this leave.
      - A per-tile table with exact found % vs expected % and unseen count.

Options:

    -threads 3

    More threads means a more accurate inference. If not set, this number
    defaults to the greater or 1 or your number of CPUs minus 1.

    -time 60

    The amount of time in seconds to infer. Defaults to 60 seconds. You may
    want this to be a little bit larger on slower machines / those with
    fewer cores.

    -tau 0.05

    Softmax temperature controlling how rational the opponent is assumed to be.
    Softmax is applied over the log-odds of win probabilities (not raw win
    probabilities), so tau is on the log-odds scale. Typical in-game win
    probabilities (20%–80%) map to log-odds of roughly [-1.4, 1.4]; strongly
    won/lost positions (5%–95%) reach about [-3, 3]. Lower values assume the
    opponent almost always plays the best move; higher values give more weight
    to sub-optimal plays.
    Defaults to 0.05. A value of 0 is treated as the default.

    -maxleaves 750

    Maximum number of distinct opponent leaves before switching from exhaustive
    enumeration to Monte Carlo sampling. When the opponent plays many tiles
    (e.g. 5–6 of 7), the leave space is tiny and the inferrer automatically
    enumerates every possible leave exactly once, computing the exact Bayesian
    posterior (prior × likelihood) rather than noisy IS estimates.

    Typical tractability:
      k=1 (bingo): ≤27 leaves   — always enumerates
      k=2 (5 tiles played): ≤378 leaves — always enumerates
      k=3 (4 tiles played): up to ~3650 — enumerates when bag is modest
      k≥4: only enumerates when the bag is very small (≤~15 tiles)

    Defaults to 5000. Set to 0 to use the default. Set to 1 to always use
    Monte Carlo sampling (useful for comparison).

    -rounds 6

    Maximum number of refinement rounds after round 0 (see "Refinement rounds"
    above). The loop usually stops earlier — on convergence, mass coverage, or
    the time budget — so this is a ceiling, not a target. Set to 0 for
    single-stage inference: round 0 gets the whole budget and nothing is
    re-measured, which is the useful comparison when judging whether
    refinement helped. Defaults to 6.
