peg [options] - solve pre-endgame exhaustively

Example:
    peg
    peg -threads 1
    peg -threads 8 -endgameplies 6 -maxtime 10
    peg stop

About:
    Macondo can solve an n-tile-in-the-bag pre-endgame exhaustively. It does this
    by solving all possible endgames using a fast search for it (see -first-win-optim
    option in the endgame).

    When considering `pass` as a move, Macondo will try all options exhaustively
    for our opponent. Our opponent may make a "mistake" from their perspective,
    since they do not know what our tiles are. We only add wins in the pass case if
    we are guaranteed to win with any given tile, even given any mistakes the
    opponent might make.

    Similar considerations exist when considering any non-bag-emptying play as a move.

    If there is more than 1 winner - i.e., more than 1 top play with
    the same number of pre-endgame wins, Macondo will solve the resulting
    endgames more accurately (-first-win option will be set to false).
    Instead of just finding a win, it will try to find the best win, and
    keep track of the total spreads. The play with the most wins and most
    spread is the overall pre-endgame winner. For now it will just try to
    tiebreak among the top 10 highest-scoring plays with the same number
    of wins.

    Important note: n-in-the-bag for n > 1 is much slower when considering
    non-bag-emptying plays. You can try a few options to speed this up: for
    example, -max-tiles-left 0, -max-nested-depth 0, or -skip-deep-pass true.

    You can also just solve plays individually with -only-solve. See below for
    more details, or the more in-depth manual at
    https://domino14.github.io/macondo/manual/preendgame.html.

Optional arguments:
    peg stop

    This will cancel a running pre-endgame solve and show the best move
    found so far.

Options:
    -endgameplies 4

    Endgame plies defaults to 4. This is how far to look in the endgames. You may
    not need to look any farther than 2 plies if the spread difference is big
    (since you will likely only lose or win with an out bingo). On the other
    hand, you may want to look deeper if there's a Q or similar tile to draw,
    that may result in one player getting stuck with it.

    -threads 8

    Threads defaults to the number of cores in your machine. This is how many
    cores to use for the pre-endgame.

    -maxtime 10

    How much time to use. If we run out of time it will just return the best plays
    found so far. Unlimited by default.

    -early-cutoff true

    Macondo can stop analyzing a certain pre-endgame line if it finds that it will
    surely perform worse than the best line found so far. This speeds up analysis
    a lot of the time, at the cost of only the winning play being assured to have
    accurate results. If you turn this on, plays that were cut-off early will
    be marked with a ❌ symbol, and their stats may not be fully accurate.

    -max-tiles-left 1 (default)

    Only analyze plays that leave at most this many tiles in the bag after the play.
    The default of 1 means Macondo evaluates plays that empty the bag or leave exactly
    1 tile — so for a 4-in-bag position it only looks at plays using 3 or 4 tiles.
    Passes and short plays (which leave 2+ tiles) are skipped.

    This scales naturally with bag size: at 5-in-bag with default 1, plays using
    4 or 5 tiles are analyzed; at 3-in-bag, plays using 2 or 3 tiles are analyzed.

    Set to -1 to analyze all plays regardless of how many tiles they leave in the bag
    (may take days on positions with many tiles). Set to 0 to only analyze plays
    that empty the bag entirely.

    Note: if you use -only-solve to specify particular moves, those moves are
    always solved regardless of this setting.

    -opprack AENST

    If you have partial rack info for the opponent, enter it here. This can make
    pre-endgame analysis faster by skipping a bunch of racks the opponent can't have.

    -skip-tiebreaker true

    Setting this option to true will skip the spread-based tiebreaker. This can
    save some time since solving these endgames more accurately will be slower.

    -skip-losses true

    Setting this option to true will skip analyzing any pre-endgame plays as soon
    as it finds a loss. This can save some time if all you want to find are wins
    (or perhaps ties).

    -disable-id true

    Setting this option to true will disable iterative deepening. iterative
    deepening will try setting endgamePlies to 1, 2, 3, and so on until
    the maximum that you specify. This will allow you to have a potential
    answer much earlier.

    -only-solve "B4 DIEH.RD"

    Setting the -only-solve option will only solve the PEG for the given move. This
    is good if you want to just examine one move. You can specify this option
    multiple times to specify multiple moves.

    -avoid-prune "B4 DIEH.RD"

    If you use the early-cutoff function, any plays you specify with potentially repeated
    `-avoid-prune` options never get cut off. This is good for comparing plays you
    made to the top plays.

    -max-nested-depth 1 (default)

    When a non-bag-emptying line is analyzed, the recursion proceeds as follows: we
    play non-emptying, the opponent's replies are enumerated (a flat list), and if the
    opponent also plays non-emptying, Macondo runs a nested sub-PEG for our subsequent
    candidates across all remaining bag permutations. If within that sub-PEG another
    round of non-emptying exchanges would occur, a second nested sub-PEG would be needed.

    The default cap of 1 allows exactly one nested sub-PEG. Continuations that would
    require a second nested sub-PEG are skipped (only bag-emptying lines are evaluated
    at that depth). This is a slight optimistic approximation: a skipped continuation
    might have been a loss. Set to -1 for unlimited depth — note this can take days or
    weeks on positions with many tiles in the bag. Set to 0 to skip all non-bag-emptying
    analysis (equivalent to -max-tiles-left 0).

    -skip-deep-pass true (default)

    By default, pass moves are suppressed when generating candidates inside the nested
    sub-PEG, except when the previous move was also a pass (so the bounded
    "pass → pass → game ends" branch is always evaluated). This prevents rare but
    expensive pass chains from inflating the nested search. Set to false to allow passes
    as candidates at every level of the nested sub-PEG.